+++
id = """2358"""
date = """2012-05-31T13:02:14"""
date_gmt = """2012-05-31T13:02:14"""
guid = """http://drewstromberg.com/ssdp/?p=2358"""
modified = """2017-02-03T09:36:54"""
modified_gmt = """2017-02-03T09:36:54"""
slug = """sexy-pizza-launches-sensible-students-pizza-in-denver"""
status = """publish"""
type = """post"""
link = """https://ssdp.org/blog/sexy-pizza-launches-sensible-students-pizza-in-denver/"""
title = """Sexy Pizza Launches Sensible Students Pizza in Denver"""
excerpt = """<p>FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MAY 31, 2012 Contact: Kayvan S. T. Khalatbari, Sexy Pizza 303-830-8111 or Stacia Cosner, Students for Sensible Drug Policy 410-299-3433 DENVER, CO &#8211; Sexy Pizza, winner of the 2012 Westword Reader’s Choice Award for Best Pizza, with two locations in Denver, CO, has created the “SSDPizza,” which will benefit Students for Sensible Drug Policy. The traditional New</p>
<div class="h10"></div>
<p><a class="more-link2 flat" href="https://ssdp.org/blog/sexy-pizza-launches-sensible-students-pizza-in-denver/">Read more</a></p>
"""
author = """7"""
featured_media = """3215"""
comment_status = """open"""
ping_status = """open"""
template = """"""
format = """standard"""
meta = """[]"""
categories = """[24, 32, 34]"""
tags = """[384, 717, 166, 985, 986, 987, 145]"""
+++
<strong>FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MAY 31, 2012</strong>



Contact: Kayvan S. T. Khalatbari, Sexy Pizza 303-830-8111 or Stacia Cosner, Students for Sensible Drug Policy 410-299-3433



<strong>DENVER, CO</strong> &#8211; <a title="Sexy Pizza" href="http://sexypizzaonline.com/" target="_blank">Sexy Pizza</a>, winner of the 2012 Westword Reader’s Choice Award for Best Pizza, with two locations in Denver, CO, has created the “SSDPizza,” which will benefit Students for Sensible Drug Policy. The traditional New York style pizza is topped with spinach, olive oil, fresh garlic, ricotta, feta, and mozzarella. In supporting the efforts of the student movement to end the war on drugs, Sexy Pizza will donate $1 from the purchase of each “SSDPizza” to their organization.



Sexy Pizza’s owner, Kayvan S.T. Khalatbari, a longtime supporter of drug policy reform efforts, hailed the pizza as a way to enjoy great food and support a worthy non-profit organization at the same time. “Today’s students are the foundation for our future and those with sensible views concerning our failed drug war are the strength in that foundation,” said Khalatbari. “We at Sexy Pizza are proud to help students who are tirelessly working to end the war on drugs in Colorado and around the nation.”



Sexy Pizza recently ran a <a href="http://blogs.westword.com/latestword/2011/10/sexy_pizza_free_papa_johns_medical_marijuana.php" target="_blank">successful advocacy campaign</a> that reached nearly 2 million Americans after a Papa John’s pizza delivery driver foolishly called the police on a father who was legally using medical marijuana in his own home. Sexy Pizza decided to offer the victim a free pizza per month until voters decide a 2012 Colorado marijuana regulation initiative. The campaign caught the attention of <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xG6U4VprZXc">Jimmy Fallon</a> who ran a bit that reached an estimated 1.8 million Americans.



Following up on the success of its last campaign, Sexy Pizza is using that momentum to assist other cannabis reform advocacy groups.  SSDP plays a critical role in the movement to reform drug policy – they get young people involved in the political process and provide training to help students develop leadership and professional skills that will allow them to be effective advocates for political change.



“As a law student, I’ve closely studied our drug laws, and the more I learn, the more I realize how important it is to work toward making this country’s drug policies more sensible” said Daniel Garcia, president of the <a title="Denver Law SSDP" href="http://ssdp.org/chapters/mountain-plains/colorado/university-of-denver-law" target="_blank">Denver University Law chapter of SSDP</a>. “The donations generated by the new SSDP pizza will help provide support to more than 200 SSDP chapters across the country. We have a tough job as young marijuana legalization advocates in our state, Colorado, I can only imagine how difficult it is to be a student activist on this issue in places like Mississippi, Utah or Nebraska. Every little bit helps!”



Sexy Pizza has also created pizzas for such marijuana reform groups as Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, SAFER, and Sensible Colorado.  As usual, $1 from the purchase of each pizza is donated to the respective organizations.
